- The Mill 2015 VFX Reel - https://vimeo.com/147743032

Mill Visual Effects combine talent with technology, artistry with rigor, the familiar with the fantastic. Our work can be inspiring or invisible, but always unforgettable.

From another year of top Super Bowl spots and award-winning projects to launching our new website and joining the Technicolor family, 2015 has been another fantastic year across The Mill. We’re taking a look back at many of the big projects, wins and news that made our 2015 great. We've also included the reels, title sequences and behind the scenes films created this year.

The year was filled with award-winning projects and recognition for the breadth of quality work being produced across studios. We were honoured to receive Post-Production Company of the Year at the LIAs, while also topping the annual Televisual Facilities 50 survey for an unprecedented seven years in row. 

The Mill in London also won Top Rated and Top Used Post Production Company of the Year in the 2015 Televisual Commercials 30, with four Mill artists included in Top Operators: Andrew Wood (Barnsley), Creative Director; Seamus O'Kane, Head of Colour; Dave 'Luddy' Ludlam, Colourist; and Matt Osborne, Colourist.


- OFFSET London 2015 Title Sequence - https://vimeo.com/146397661

Mill+ Designer Aran Quinn directed the 2015 Title Sequence for OFFSET London, the international debut for the Dublin-based design and creative conference featuring the makers, innovators and educators shaping the future of our visual landscape.

For OFFSET’s first international conference, Aran created a title sequence following six characters from across the globe en route to the festival in London. While travelling on their very own custom made motorbikes, each character is carrying an individual letter to spell out 'OFFSET'. Along the way, they each leave a unique trail that transforms to spell out the names of the 18 guest speakers. 

Each character was made out of clay and hand painted four times or more to create a boiling or flickering effect, which was inspired by a technique by fellow Irish artist Conor Finnegan. All of the characters’ background props and the speakers’ names are cell animated and designed to reflect the local culture of each quirky globetrotter.

Aran comments, “I love stop motion and cell animation so I went straight for mixed media approach as it’s my most favorable technique. It also ties into the speakers’ different backgrounds in multidisciplinary work since the OFFSET festival covers all areas of identity projects, graphics, print, animation, film and illustration."

- Google ATAP ‘HELP’ - https://vimeo.com/130096298

‘HELP’ combines live action and CG in a 360 environment, creating an action-driven story with cinematic quality visual effects. The team worked to solve the technical and creative challenges involved with immersive and VR filmmaking, developing a custom 360 camera rig solution with the ability to follow the action.

Shooting 360 live action footage has generally been a challenge for directors, with most methods providing images from multiple cameras with an overlapping wide-angle field of view. The Mill took on the challenge to build a comprehensive onset/dailies type solution that was intuitive and inspired confidence on set.

After numerous tests, experimentation and R&D, The Mill developed ‘Mill Stitch’ (TM pending), a proprietary software solution that takes images from multiple cameras and then stitches the output into a continuous 360 degree view. Mill Stitch proved invaluable to the process, bringing real-time stitching, interactive controls, and record/review to a cinematic VR production pipeline. Mill Stitch was even featured at Google I/O sandbox so patrons could experience first hand what it would be like directing a VR film.

- British Film Institute - Film is Fragile - https://vimeo.com/142672113

Mill+ were offered an open brief to create the concept and direct the fundraising film encapsulating the BFI’s mission, whilst also demonstrating our shared passion for the preservation and promotion of film within the UK.

The film features a montage of numerous clips from classics to cult favourites and contemporary cinema; referencing the BFI’s role in supporting emerging British talent and film culture as a whole. The concept behind the fundraising film plays on the idea that stories, not just films, deserve to be preserved; encouraging the viewer to imagine their favourite films literally being burnt before their very eyes.

Directed by Mill+'s Carl Addy, he explains how the team approached the project as a whole and the inspiration behind the burning film motif, “The concept for this film isn’t simply about the preservation of the physical celluloid but, more importantly, it is about the protection and sanctity of the soul of film, which is storytelling.” Carl goes on to explain the challenges of this exciting brief, “Our biggest challenge was getting clearance on such a wide range of footage, it was a mammoth research task as we needed to trawl through so much footage. We are very grateful for the filmmakers, whose generosity helped us create this film; allowing us to pay testament to the worthy cause that the BFI are promoting. It was like piecing together a giant jigsaw puzzle using footage from some of the best films in British cinema. Our talented design team then got to work on coming up with the correct film burn language.”